---
title: 'Which programming language should I learn'
date: 2022-02-07
permalink: /posts/2022/02/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - programming language
  - TIOBE index
---

As a developer over 6 years, I am often asked with the following questions.
- Which programming language should I learn?
- Which is the best language around the world?
- When should I consider using a new language for my project?

If you have the same concerns, you are right for reading this sharing. This blog will be structured with these questions.

Programming languages overview
======
The emergence of language is a great leap in human civilization. With language, we can freely exchange ideas, transmit information, and even use it as a vehicle for literature and art.

Likewise, computer programming languages are a great invention. With them, we can make computers work the way we want, and we can give full play to our creativity to create software products that benefit mankind. Today, software has become one of the driving forces that empower the development of the digital economy. Our day-to-day activities are powered by thousands of pieces of software.
When you are using social platforms such as Facebook, in addition to the local Facebook app itself, the cloud also runs a lot of software, Linux operating systems, web servers, databases, and more.

As we have seen, different regions speak different languages. There are more than 200 countries and regions in the world, and there are more languages than this. But the language that can be used internationally is basically only English. Similarly, there are many computer programming languages, and they target different application areas. C language should be a more general one.

So how many programming languages have we created？I don't know what the exact number is, and it's not necessary to try to make this statistic. Even when your technology is good enough, you can create a programming language by yourself. To arrive at the goal, it is mainly necessary to master solid compilation principles and implementation methods.

In such a huge world of programming languages, there are only a dozen or so that are very popular. We basically choose one of these languages to start learning programming.
Which would they be? C, C++, C#, Java, JavaScript, Python, SQL and more. If you want to get a specific list, please refer to [TIOBE index](https://www.tiobe.com/tiobe-index/) for details. When consider the popularity of programming languages, TIOBE index is a widely used indicator.

Which is the best language in the world
======

Programming language usage trend
------